.TH ASUS-TABLET-SWITCH 8 "July 2026" "asus-tablet-switch 0.1.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
asus-tablet-switch \- translate an ASUS hinge hotkey into tablet-mode state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asus-tablet-switch
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B asus-tablet-switch
is a hardware-specific compatibility daemon for the ASUS ProArt PX13
HN7306EAC. It reads
.B KEY_PROG2
events from the evdev device named
.BR "Asus WMI hotkeys" ,
debounces the observed duplicate burst, and emits an alternating
.B SW_TABLET_MODE
state through a uinput device.
.PP
The daemon does not accept command-line options. Diagnostic messages are
written to standard error and are captured by the systemd journal when run as
a service.
.SH RECOVERY
A real closed-to-open event from the evdev device named
.B Lid Switch
forces laptop mode and clears the hinge debounce state. If the built-in
keyboard and touchpad remain disabled after unfolding, close the lid fully and
reopen it.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The observed hinge event is a relative toggle, not an absolute position. The
daemon assumes laptop mode when it starts. Starting it while folded, restarting
it while folded, or losing an event can invert the state until a full
lid-close/open recovery or restart.
.PP
This program can cause the desktop to disable the built-in keyboard and
touchpad. Test it interactively on verified hardware before enabling the
service.
.SH SIGNALS
.B SIGINT
and
.B SIGTERM
request a clean shutdown.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/asus-tablet-switch.service
System service definition.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/udev/rules.d/99-asus-tablet-switch.rules
Narrow device-access rules for the service account.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/modules-load.d/asus-tablet-switch.conf
Requests the uinput kernel module at boot.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR evtest (1),
.BR libinput (1),
.BR systemd.service (5),
.BR systemd-sysusers (8)
.PP
Project documentation and detailed diagnostic notes:
.UR https://github.com/geoff-hill/asus-tablet-switch
.UE
